# Final Project
Tiffany Gross
11/28/18


### Project Proposal

  My final project is a game.  My intended specifics include: Three classes of bouncing balls, each consisting of four colors (all four of which will be in the same color scheme so that it's visually appealing and also easy to tell the classes apart).  Within each class, the balls will be aware of edges and of each other, but between classes they will not.  So each class will have a different opacity so that you can still see two balls as they pass by or "through" one another, and so that you could potentially affect more than one ellipse with one click of the mouse.  The smallest class of bouncing ball will be moving at the highest velocity, and the largest will be moving the slowest.  Therefore it will be relatively easy to click on the largest class of ellipses and almost impossible to click on the smallest.  When you click within the parameters of a specific ball, it will "explode" or disappear.  (Given time I might make them do something else, but I'm already about a third of the way into the project and it's taken over a week to get this far so I may not have as much room for complicated details as I thought.)  If you manage to click within the parameters of a small-class ball, a message will print on the screen telling you how amazing and impressive you are.  If you click within the parameters of a large-class ball, a sarcastic/snarky message will appear on screen telling you you need to challenge yourself more.  Medium size ball- mediocre message of encouragement.  If I can, there will be a large variety of messages and they will be rotated through and used randomly within each ball class.  If any of these details prove impossible, my intention is to make the class shapes more detailed, add a background image and animation, and simply have the balls either explode or change shape when clicked on.
  I have two projects I've started working on, initially intending to combine them but then after realizing the level of detail required for each, I kept working on them seperately so that if I absolutely fail with one I still have a chance to make the other work as a failsafe.  The second one is a version of Alien Space Invaders, with alien faces falling from the top of the canvas and a "shooter" at the bottom of the screen that can be moved either with the mouse or with left and right arrow keys.  If I can figure out the first part of my project this week I want to combine elements of this other game, which I've started but seems a little out of my league.

### Problems I Need To Solve

  Since I need to be able to have an if-then statement that affects each ellipse if I click within its parameters, and since I want different sized ellipses, I've ended up writing each ellipse class separately so that when I have to figure out the math for if the mouse is within the parameters (since each radius is different, I don't want the player to have to click on a tiny area within the larger circles) and I want each class of ellipse to move differently and react differently, I've written each part in a separate sketch to start with.  The problems I'm running into right now are that when I combine each sketch containing each class (defined using OOP) the code breaks, though they all work fine separately.  The next thing I tried was using a constructor, and going into the index.html file to add "<script src="constructor.js"></script>" (as an example) while I have each thing defined in a separate sketch.  My understanding was that as long as it's included in the index.html it can be referenced universally, but I still haven't been able to get that part to work, even though I'm doing it exactly the way it looks like it's done in all the examples I've searched.  But I have enough wiggle room in the creative idea for the project that I can easily go another route if I can't figure that part out.  The game part is relatively simple so that I can add in animations and try to make something that is at least a little bit like the sort of thing I imagined myself creating when I started pursuing this degree.

  ### Work Plan

  So far I'm on schedule, but since things always seem to crop up at the last minute, and since by the time it's the last minute your brain is too fried to actually scroll through pages of code to look for missing or extra curly brackets, I'm trying to finish everthing a week early.  My intention is to have each class defined and working by the end of this week, the background drawn (to be animated if and when I hit my early deadline with everything working), and ideally have a game plan to figure out the most efficient way to combine these parts to make a whole. If I can get that part working by the end of this week, the rest of the allotted time is to be spent adding movement details to the ellipses and/or animated characters to the background.  If I can't figure this part out by week's end the most important thing that needs to happen is to schedule a time to speak with Dr. Musick, Stephanie, or a TA to figure out how to fix this issue and whether I need to start from scratch.  My work schedule makes it impossible to come to office hours or meet at most normal times on weekdays, so I've been heavily dependent on Schiffman throughout the semester and I'm really hoping I can be resourceful enough to solve this on my own.  Internal deadline; have entire project ready to go at LEAST three days prior to due date.

  ### Work I Have Completed Thus Far

   I addressed this quite a bit above, but in more detail, the work I've done so far on this project overall spans across two completely different games and I think six separate sketches.  A lot of this has been playing around with new ideas and figuring out what best reflects the picture I have in my head and is still simple enough that it can actually be executed in  a way that is at least somewhat similar to the way I had in mind.  This has turned out to be a good approach with most projects because actually seeing the sketch gives me a better idea of what will look good, and often allows me to have a better-informed intention of what to do with the project overall.  Sketching is a better mental exercise than empty imagining.  So far, aside from beginning the Alien Shooter game I originally intended, I have successfully finished defining two classes of ellipses that look and move the way I want them to, and are aware of one another.  Defining the third class I already know won't be a problem, so I have spent the majority last two days trying to get the two sketches to work in one.  That's where I am currently, so even though I'm pretty stuck on this part I'm still within the confines of my intended work schedule and things are on track.
