# Final Project Overview
Tiffany Gross
12/10/18


### With Relation to the Project Proposal
This whole endeavor went way better than I had expected.  I tried to give myself some creative wiggle room when writing the project proposal since every  one of the projects so far this semester had come out looking far different than what I had in mind.  But this looks EXACTLY like what I was picturing.  I had left myself a few extra days in my work plan so that I could add extra detail to challenge myself, and I did get everything working in time to attempt this, but was unable to effectively code in the animation I had drawn.  But I will address that in depth later on.
  Specifically, as outlined in my proposal, I was successfully able to create three classes of bouncing spheres that were all aware of one another both inter- and intra- class.  At the time of writing my proposal I was still approaching it  all wrong so I wrote in some failsafes of alternative intentions since I had no idea of how to make the balls aware of one another between different classes.  So I actually exceeded expectations on that front.
The other main elements in my proposal were that I intended to attempt were to make the balls disappear when a mouse is clicked within the parameters, and that the velocity of  each  class of sphere would be different, such that the largest size class would move fairly slowly, and the smallest class ball would ping around pretty quickly.  I was able to do this successfully and had ample time to alter the velocities until they seemed appropriately difficult for a game (but appropriately easy for the sake of the TA who has to test out the game).


### How I Solved the Problems I Was Stuck On At the Time of Writing the Proposal

As detailed in the original proposal, I started out on this project by actually writing three completely separate sketches, and was then trying to integrate them.  So I had three simple working sketches and one big mess of a project that was completely broken.  I was trying to solve this by using a constructor and and going into the index.html file to add "<script src="constructor.js"></script>" to refer to objects contained in different sketches within p5.  This turned out to be the wrong approach (even if it could work in theory, I finally realized that was an incredibly stupid way to go about it.)  At long last I started a new sketch that contained the same overall information of the three sketches, but used a master class and then sub-classes to achieve the effect I needed.  I realize that sounds ridiculously simplistic to you, but I literally cried tears of joy when I figured that out.  Problem solving even at such a base level is still just beyond my grasp, so that was a huge win.



  ### Work and Steps Taken

   After resolving the aforementioned issue, I began again by defining a Sphere superclass.  Then I added the functions and methods within the subclasses that would differ from each other.  All of the important shared traits (for example, the spheres being aware of edges and each other, or changing color when they reach an edge) referred to the parent class, and all the details that I wanted to be varied were all altered within the child classes (i.e. start colors, start positions, velocities, etc).
    After getting the classes defined and working (which unfortunately took an entire week, no including the time I spent writing all the sketches separately) I then turned my attention to seeing if it would be possible to have a point counter.  I tried a million different things here and even after getting advice from some of our clearly more experienced students, I was unable to connect text indices to the mousePressed splice method.  Solving this one was just sort of luck.  Well, not so much luck I suppose as sheer amount of time trying every possible combination of things.  Eventually I happened to decide it might make sense to place the **if** function for the text indices immediately below the **if** function for mouseCheck and splice.  I called the text separately way down below at the very bottom of the code.  For some reason the whole process wouldn't work when it  was all together, in either place.  So that issue was resolved just by being patient/stubborn, definitely not by being clever.
  The last issue I had trouble dealing with at first was that I needed a very specific number of spheres in order to make my indices array work for the text part.  Even though I did **const numOfSpheres = 8;** at the top, seemingly (I assume) because I was dealing with three subclasses, the number of spheres was definitely not equal to this **const** although it was clearly related to the number, although I can't quite figure out the mathematical equation happening there.  But through trial and error I was able to nail down the number of spheres that would be produced in each class, and wrote the incices text so that it was aligned in the way I wanted the game to function.  Successfully clicking on all spheres in the first two classes finishes up "Level 1" and then since the smallest class of sphere is at a significantly higher velocity of movement, I made that part the "Bonus Round".

  * The only thing I ended up unable to add was something I hadn't really outlined in my proposal, but I had left extra time in my work plan provided everything went smoothly, so that I would have a chance to try to make the game more visually appealing.  I created a 60-frame animation in Photoshop and exported it as separate images so that I could reference them and bring the animation into my sketch.  I left this part of the code in just in case it works in the browser of whoever is viewing our final projects.  I did extensive research on how to make animations of this type work, and I'm as confident as I could possibly be that I've done it correctly.  The code is not broken (I took the animation part out and opened it in a sketch by itself during the troubleshooting process) but the index.html returns a "Loading..." message.  I spoke briefly with Dr. Musick about it, and his first thought was that I may need to switch to a live server.  I spent a few days trying to make it work that way, I downloaded several different Windows-compatible servers that I had a whole host of fun issues playing with.  I didn't even understand what "local server" meant when I started out, so my time wasn't entirely spent in vain, although I really wish I had tested out the coding part earlier on with just a couple of frames before I drew SIXTY of them.
   Anyway, eventually I opened the sketch directly from atom-live-server and it still didn't work, so I have my doubts about the server being the issue in this case.  Regardless, even though that part didn't work, I still successfully was able to stick to my work plan to complete my intended project on time and was able to spend a couple of days playing around attempting some things that were a bit further from my grasp (honestly almost all of it is mostly out of my grasp, and this class has been a massive struggle, so I am immensely pleased and really pleasantly surprised by how perfectly all of this turned out).

    Sincere thanks to Dr. Musick and all of you guys leading this class, I never would have thought I'd be able to code anything, even if someone had a gun to my head.  But here we are!  And I really appreciate all the efforts you've all put in to make that possible.  Really excellent class, five stars.
